=== PAGE 154 ===
Mizia Using short bursts of weapon fire over a longer period
of time. The opposite of an Alpha Strike. Mizia attacks
cause more damage to weapons and critical systems,
but take longer to achieve. To Mizia, you fire one
weapon, wait 1/20 of a turn, fire another weapon and
repeat.
Move Cost How much energy it takes to move a starship 10,000
km per turn. Small ships have move costs from .25
and up. Heavy Cruisers usually have a move cost of 1
point of energy per 10,000km per turn. Dreadnoughts
usually have a move cost of 1.5.
NCA New Heavy Cruiser: A ship nearly as capable as a
heavy cruiser, but with a cost and build time similar to
a light cruiser.
NCL New Light Cruiser: The next generation of light
cruisers. The Federation NCL matches the firepower
of the heavy cruiser and is in many ways a superior ship.
Orions Orion Pirates: A loose collection of pirate cartels that
plague each of the empires in the game.
Ph–1 Phaser, Type–1: An offensive phaser.
Ph–2 Phaser, Type–2: An offensive/defensive phaser.
Ph–3 Phaser, Type–3: A defensive phaser.
Ph–4 Phaser, Type–4: A large phaser found only on bases.
The most powerful phaser in the game.
Ph–G Phaser, Gatling: A Hydran weapon that can fire four
ph–3 shots.
Pl–F Plasma, Type–F: The smallest plasma torpedo.
Pl–G Plasma, Type–G: An early medium plasma torpedo.
Pl–R Plasma, Type–R: The largest plasma torpedo.
Pl–S Plasma, Type–S: An improved version of the Type–G
plasma torpedoes. Not as large as the Type–R.
PPT Pseudo Plasma Torpedo: A decoy plasma torp that can
be used to fool the enemy into thinking that you are
recharging your plasmas.
Prestige A representation of how well the player’s character is
doing. Prestige can be reputation, honor, or any
number of different characteristics. The higher the
prestige, the more the player’s character can do.
Prestige can be spent to requisition ships, repairs,
refits, and more. The lifetime prestige, the total amount
of prestige earned, ignoring your purchases, is used to
determine your captain’s rank.
Race In this game (and in this manual), it is
sometimes used as another word for empire. 155
=== PAGE 155 ===
Range The distance from one unit to another, in 10,000 km
increments. This matches the range in hexes in SFB.
1.0 – 1.9 = 1 hex.
Rank Rank is the officer level. Higher ranked officers
command larger ships but have more responsibility. In
SFC, higher ranks allow the player more ships as well
as larger ships to control.
RSE Romulan Star Empire
SFB Star Fleet Battles: A board game of starship combat
set in the Star Trek universe.
SFC Starfleet Command: A computer game of tactical
starship combat set in the Star Trek universe.
Ship Starship: A type of unit in the game Starfleet Command.
Usually outfitted with weapons, shields, systems and
engines. They don’t maneuver like fighters.
SP Scatterpack Shuttle
Speed The distance a starship travels in one turn, in
10,000km increments. All combat in SFC takes place
at sub–light speeds.
SS Suicide Shuttle: A shuttlecraft loaded with anti–matter
and they target enemies like a seeking weapon.
ST–1 Stinger–1 Fighter: The basic Hydran fighter.
ST–2 Stinger–2 Fighter: The Hydran space superiority fighter.
ST–H Stinger–H Fighter: The Hellbore–armed variant of the
Stinger fighter.
Turn A period of time equal to the setting of the game speed
slider in the preferences panel. One turn is the
standard amount of time between actions (firing a
phaser, use of a transporter). Some actions can take
more time (charging a plasma torpedo...) or less time
(the delay before you can move again after an
emergency deceleration...).
Turn Class A statistic that describes how good a starship is at
making turns. AA is the best (fastest turns), F is the
worst (the slowest turns). The faster a ship is going,
the more turn class will affect the turn rate of that
ship.
UFP United Federation of Planets
Unit Either a ship, shuttle, fighter, or base.
WW Wild Weasel: A shuttlecraft modified to emit the same
sensor return as the ship that launches it. It is a
defensive item that will attract seeking weapons
launched at the ship that the WW is pretending to be.
156
=== PAGE 156 ===
COMPREHENSIVE HOTKEY LIST
This is a list of the default game key bindings:
ESC End Mission
F1 Overhead Camera
F2 Chase Camera
F3 Follow Camera (Default)
F4 Enemy Camera
F5 Toggle Target Padlock
F6 Jump to ship #1
F7 Jump to ship #2
F8 Jump to ship #3
F9 HUD Minimal Information
F10 HUD Normal Information
F11 HUD Maximum Information
` Target Nearest Enemy
1 – 4 Select Weapon Group #
CTRL+ 1 – 4 Set Weapon Group #
5 – 8 Select Target from Memory
CTRL+ 5 – 8 Set Target to Memory
9 Fleet Control Panel
0 Communications Panel
– Zoom In
+ Zoom Out
BACKSPACE Quickjump to Target Player Ship
TAB Tactical Map Panel
Q Launch Suicide Shuttle
W Launch Wild Weasel
E Launch Scatterpack
R Red Alert!
T Target (cycles)
SHIFT – T Target (reverse order)
Y Target Enemy (cycles)
SHIFT – Y Target Enemy (reverse order)
I Toggle Deep Scan
157
=== PAGE 157 ===
O Switch Schematic Displays
P Fire Probe
[ Game Speed Slower
] Game Speed Faster
\ Deselect Target
A Slow Down
S Speed Up
D Slide Interface Bar
F Max ECM
G Max ECCM
H Sensors Panel (ECM and ECCM)
J Tractor Panel
K Shield Panel
L Defense Panel
; Repair Panel
‘ Helm Panel
ENTER Chat Toggle
CTRL– ENTER Chat Toggle (Team Message)
Z Fire (Fire one weapon on each hardpoint)
SHIFT – Z Alpha Strike! (Fire all)
X Toggle Cloak
C Max Defensive Tractor
V Max Point Defense
B Transporter Bomb
N Transport Panel
M Drop Mine
SHIFT – M Drop NSM (Romulans only)
, Shuttle Panel
. Energy Panel
/ Preferences Panel
SPACE Target Nearest Hostile Seeking Weapon
PAUSE Pause & Issue Orders (single–player only)
HOME Move Camera Right
END Move Camera Left
158
=== PAGE 158 ===
PGUP Tilt Camera Up
PGDN Tilt Camera Down
Number Pad
1 Reinforce Aft Left Shield
2 Reinforce Aft Shield
3 Reinforce Aft Right Shield
4 Reinforce Left Shield
5 Start HET
6 Reinforce Right Shield
7 Reinforce Forward Left Shield
8 Reinforce Forward Shield
9 Reinforce Forward Right Shield
0 Emergency Deceleration
– Orbit Target
/ Erratic Maneuvers
* Follow Target
Use the Options screen on the main menu to change the hotkey bindings.
159
